feat(AIP-2): add AEP around numbering. (#65)
aep-dev/aep.dev: aep/general/0002/aep.md

# AEP Numbering

This document describes the numbering system.

AEP provides a numbering system that:

- Groups AEPs primarily by their purpose, and secondarily by the general theme
  they are discussing.
- Allows for new AEPs to be added incrementally, without adjusting the numbers
  of existing AEPs.

## AEP Blocks

The list of blocks are:

| Range     | Name            | Description                                                                                                                                                                           |
| --------- | --------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1-999     | meta topics     | topics that are not directly related to API guidance, but provide guidance or clarity for the AEPs themselves                                                                         |

> | 1000-1999 | specification   | APIs which are AEP-compliant **must** adhere to these AEPs. Clients authors may read these AEPs to determine what behavior they can rely on when integrating with AEP-compliant APIs. |

Reviewer: I thought we had tentatively concluded that this was duplicative of **must** vs. **should**, and so maybe we weren't going to do it?

Author: Hmm... wires crossed? I definitely don't see the distinction as redundant: we should point at which AEPs one should strictly adhere to.

I don't think this would work otherwise: e.g. if we decided on singletons being a design pattern, are you okay with every single clause in that AEP being a **should**?

Reviewer: Discussed in weekly meeting, but for posterity:  we discussed this live and decided to go with a different model (something more like AEP states, plus drafts of new AEPs being able to replace existing AEPs).

Marking thread resolved since it's obsolete.

# AEP Numbering and Organization

This document describes the numbering system and general organization of AEPs.

AEP numbers:

- Are unique. No two AEPs share the same number.
- Indicate the order in which they are authored.

To help with organization and discovery, AEPs also have a category and a slug
to easily discovery and refer to the AEP.

## AEP Numbers

### Core AEPs

> To uniquely identify an AEP, each one is assigned a permanent number once it

Reviewer: Nit:  the number has to be assigned before merging, right?

Author: how about "as it's merged"?

Author: updated to use "as it's merged" language, PTAL.

has been merged into the aep.dev repository. The AEP number assigned **must**
be the next available number. AEPs **must** be numbered between 1 and 9999.

### Organization-specific AEPs

> Organizations **may** extend the AEPs with guidance that is relevant to them.

Reviewer: I think this addresses the numbering question, but is light on details about what it means to extend the AEPs and how to do it.  Maybe this AEP doesn't need to cover those details, but it would be helpful for it to at least link to something that does.

Author: There's already a lot of content, so I'd rather do that incrementally if that's ok. Tracking ticket: https://github.com/aep-dev/aep.dev/issues/69.

When doing so, they **must** use AEP numbers 10000 or greater.

## AEP Categories

> To help with discovery of an AEP, each one is assigned a category: a string the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To help with discovery of an AEP, each one is assigned a category: a string that
```

> describes a theme or grouping the proposal belongs in. The category of a

Reviewer: "proposal" as in the "P" in "AEP"?  Should we just say AEP here?

Author: I thought it might be better to have a separate term for a single AEP, and thought "proposal" might work. In case we decide to change names again.

But I could just use AEP everywhere, if you feel strongly about it.

Author: I just updated everything to say "AEP" explicitly.

proposal **may** change over time.

## AEP Slugs

> Each AEP is given a slug: a string by which it can be easily referred to. The

Reviewer: I don't think this is actually ungrammatical, but it reads a little awkwardly - it uses "by which" but still manages to end in a preposition!  Maybe something like this?

```suggestion
Each AEP is given a slug: a string by which it can be easily referenced. The
```

Author: applied!

slug of an AEP **may** change over time, sometimes to refer to a new revision

> of an existing AEP.

Reviewer: This section could use examples, both of a slug changing to refer to a new revision of an AEP, but also of what a slug even is.

Author: added.

## Rationale

### Why AEP Slugs

In the original aip.dev project, numbers were the primary identifier for a
proposal. However, as a number does not hint to its purpose or the guidance it
contains, conversations around AIPs were difficult to hold and often the AIPs
were be referred to by an unofficial colloquial name rather than by its number.

As such, AEPs provide the ability for a semantic slug.

> ### Why AEP Categories

Reviewer: Should we use categories (many:one) or tags (many:many)?

Author: I was thinking categories to start: it gives us the ability for a clear ordering in the left-hand-navigation.

If we only had tags then in the nav you'd have the same AEP show up multiple times - I think that might be make the tree hierarchy more difficult to navigate?

to easily discovery and refer to the AEP.

See below for an example of an AEP id, category, and slug, expressed via YAML
front-matter:

```yaml
id: 11
category: 'resources'
slug: 'create'
```

## AEP Numbers

### Core AEPs

To uniquely identify an AEP, each one is assigned a permanent number as it is
merged.

- A merged AEP **must** use the next available number.
- AEPs **must** be numbered between 1 and 9999.

### Organization-specific AEPs

- Organizations **may** extend the AEPs with guidance that is relevant to them.
- Organization-specific AEPs **must** use AEP numbers 10000 or greater.

## AEP Categories

To help with discovery of an AEP, each one is assigned a category: a string
that describes a theme or grouping the AEP belongs in.

- The category of an AEP **may** change over time.

As an example, the guidance around custom methods may grow to multiple AEPs. As
such, AEPS may create a new category "custom-methods" and recategorize relevant
AEPs (mutating custom methods, retrieval custom methods) under it.

Categories are expressed in the YAML front-matter of an AEP:

```yaml
category: 'custom-methods'
```

## AEP Slugs

> Each AEP is given a slug: a string by which it can be easily referenced.

Reviewer: Are slugs also used for short links, e.g. aep.dev/create?

Author: I was thinking of adding that once I do work in the site-generator to support it, but I don't mind adding that now. WDYT?

If we did, I think `aep.dev/{slug}` makes sense. Although we may need to make sure slug names can't be used (e.g. `category`).

I'd kind of wonder if we want to namespace this, with something like `aep.dev/p/create` or something like that. A little less aesthetically pleasing, but works around a giant headache?

Reviewer: Might as well write it now IMO, it's not like the site generator is in tightly sync with this repo anyway.  For now we can implement it as a matter of policy - the shortlink (already supported by the site generator) must match the slug.

I think the `/p/` gets too much in the way of typing out shortlinks like `aip.dev/create`.  Better to namespace categories, if we're worried about collisions, IMO - they'll probably be much less frequently referenced by manually typed links.

Author: ack, will add it before I merge.

I was more concerned about having the set of possible slugs be everything, except for a set of constants (e.g. "categories" so we don't conflict with them). 

Just playing around with this a bit, I think we're looking at:

```
aep.dev/ # landing page
aep.dev/create # slug to an AEP
aep.dev/2 # the actual AEP.
aep.dev/categories/ # category page
aep.dev/categories/resources # page listing AEPs for a category
```

Reviewer: SGTM, approving to unblock the PR whenever you make that change.

Author: added!
